92 Av LVLARIA.

as quick as possible.' Ter. Ad.
111 2, 52 tu quantum potes abi,
where Fleckeisen adopts Guyet’s
emendation potest. It is true
that in this phrase either the
best or at least good. mss. give
potest as an impersonal in Ter.
Ad. v 7, 11. Phorm. v 8, 3. 1v
3. 69. Ad. 1v 5, 66; but Andr.
v 2, 20 and Ad. 111 2, 52 potes
alone is recorded as the read-
ing of the mss, It should there-
fore not have been changed into

potest; moreover‚ this line of

the Aulularia proves that in this
phrase the verb could be perso-
nal as well as impersonal: a
fact which appears also from
Capt. 11 3, 88 ‘ut quamprimum
possis redeas, where Brix com-
pares Ter. Andr. 111 3, 45 quan-
tum queam and Eun. v 2, 5 quan-
tum queo. See also Brix on
Men. 432, and both Lorenz and
Brix on Mu. gl. 115.

