PROLOGVS.

LAR FAMILIARIS.

' Nequis miretur qui sim, paucis eloquar.
ego Lar sum familiaris, ex hac familia

THE greater part 01 the pro-
logues to the Plautine plays
being spurious and prefixed to
the comedies 01 the poet long
after his death, it is very doubt-
ful whether the prologue to the
Aulularia can be held to have
been written by the poet him-
self. It is true, none 01 the
arguments alleged against the
rest 01 the prologues by Bitschl
(Par. 1 209—226) can be ap-
plied to this: on the contrary,
this prologue is remarkably dis-
tinguished 101· its simple grace
and unaffected language. As
regards the question 01 its being
required or not, we agree en-
tirely with Thornton, who justly
observes: ‘There seems to be
no reason, why any account at
all need be given for how many
generations the treasure had re-
mained undiscovered in the old
miser’s family,’ though at the
same time it is obvious that for
the purpose 01 giving such in-
formation 110 fitter person could
be selected than the Lar fami-
liaris. Moreover, the introduc-
tion of this deity is quite con-
formable to the habit of the
writers of the so-called New
Comedy (see Meineke, Men. et

Philem. rell. 1823 p. 234) which
Plautus seems to have followed
here as well as in the prologues
to the Rudens and the Tri-
nummUS. On these grounds,
I was originally inclined to at-
tribute this prologue to Plautus
himself (de Aulul. p. 29), but
without taking into considera-
tion a inetrical reason subse-
quently suggested by Brix, viz.
that the writer uses the word
azeo‘nculus v. 34 as quadrisyl-
labic, while Plautus himself has
it as trisyllabic aanczclzcs (v.
677. 772. 792), in accordance
with a popular pronunciation
which we find confirmed by
several inscriptions. It 5001115
therefore safer to return to
Bernhardy’s opinion (Romische
Litteraturgeschicffle, 1865, p.
442) who ascribes this prologue
to an older hand than the others,
though we may allow theuni-
versal character and even the
whole idea 01 it to be taken
110111 Plautus’ original prologue.

v. 2. Lar familiaris, the tu-
telar deity 01 the house and
family. “The Roman Lases,
at a later time called Lares, are
subordinate deities of a kind
and helpful dispositi0n; their

